git status

to check status of a folder




git add .

to stage a file




git commit -m "Version 1"

to commit a folder



git log

to check which commits were done by which editors




git config --global user.name "Meet Jain"

to change name for whole computer all reposiory 




git config user.name "Meet Jain"

to change name for a particular repository




git config --global user.name 

to see what name is used globally means in all repositories




git config --global user.email "Meet Jain"

to change email for whole computer all reposiory 




git config user.email "Meet Jain"

to change email for a particular repository




git config --global user.email 

to see what email is used globally means in all repositories



git remote add origin git@github.com:MJ665/gitTutorials.git

to add ssh key in our git folder




git push -u origin master

to push code in online repository



git pull origin 

to see what were changes made by other users we will do git pull request



first do a stage file then do if any changes are made and to compare those changes
git diff 
to compare changes between stage file and original file



git reset 1234.txt
to restore change  back to staged file 

git checkout
to reset a file



git add -A----->stage all
git add .-------->stage new and modified without delete--->means 
if i have created 1 old file and created one new file and  deleted one file then it will not get stage and other 2 files weather they are new or old will get stage
if i have deleted one file then it would be deleted from code also

git add -u------->small u stage new and modified without new------>means
 in a floder in 2 old file i have made changes and i have created 1 new file then it will not stage 1 new file and remaining all file will come to stage 






touch .gitignore

makes a .gitignore file this is a hidden file




ls - la

to check which files exist


notepad .gitignore
if you are in windows do
open .gitignore
but if you are in mac os do 




basic terminal commands

Open up terminal, cmd + space "terminal".
pwd Figure out which directory you are currently in by "Printing the Working Directory".
ls List the directories and files inside the current directory.
ls -a include hidden files in the list of directories and files. This is helpful when trying to find hidden files like .git or .gitignore
cd [folder] Go into the folder. e.g. cd Desktop/Developer
cd This by itself will navigate all the way out to your Home Directory
cd .. Back out to the parent directory of the current directory.
open [file] Same as "double-clicking" a file or folder in finder.
open . Opens the current folder or file in finder or it's default application.
clear When you need a fresh Terminal window





if i want to ignore a cretain file which i wass tracking in past then i would creat a git ignore file and pul all the name of files in it



git branch

 to see which branches are there in computers git repository


git branch master2

this will creat new branch with name master2




git checkout master2

to switch to a new branch in computer




git push -u origin master2

to push on github internet
to creat if not existing or push if exting 



git merge master2
to merge master2 branch to master branch